we're in the Silicon Valley etherion
meetup I was actually really excited to
come back here because last year I gave
a talk at one and it was one of the most
fun talks I've given because we got to
go down in detail into a bunch of areas
of where the future of computing might
go with these kinds of systems so if you
could I would cover at the very
beginning kind of like the light what's
going on now what I give us about what
falcone is about what how it's going to
work with other systems and so on and
then I would dive into zooming out a bit
and looking at the general changes that
are happening to computing talk about
some problems that we need to fix as a
community and talk about scalability and
things like that and in general make a
case for recruiting Silicon Valley to
join this effort in a huge way because
one observation that I've been making is
a lot of this innovation is not
happening in Silicon Valley and there's
a distinction between how Silicon Valley
thinks and how the blockchain world
thinks and there's needs to be much more
communication across those barriers and
there are there are just huge scale
differences when you think about how
much information some of the huge
Silicon Valley companies process and
there are completely different models
right like this is a very different
model computation completely different
power dynamics and so on but I think it
would be super valuable to have a lot
more cross-pollination particularly when
it comes to products at that people will
use because Silicon Valley is very good
at building products that people use and
and you ice and also New York's and so
on and I think that that's one of the
major challenges for these distributed
systems coming up maybe potentially
maybe not next year ideally hopefully
will have very good applications next
year but the year after that I think it
will be definitively if we don't get
that right then we may not change the
world as much as we think we will and so
we have this great opportunity right now
to return the Internet to its principles
we might as well do that and it will
require very strong focus on on mobile
and that's something that I think a lot
of us know is very important but we
haven't focused as deeply into cool so
the talk the decentralized web is the
main thing that people are talking about
these days and a lot of these projects
aetherium and Bitcoin and a bunch of
others kind of fall behind us but I also
like to talk about the distributed web
which is fundamentally different and
that's more what we are aiming for and I
think a lot of people will agree and
it's just slightly different right so I
work at a company called Pro glads we
focus on designing protocols and we
really try to think of it as a lab
saying let's take this amazing machine
that we built the Internet is like
nervous system that we're all connected
to and think through the stack of
protocols that we built think how to
evolve it question under a lot huge
underlying assumptions like should DNS
really be around should DNS really point
to IP addresses like that's such a huge
assumption in every single application
we use today maybe that shouldn't work
right and this is some kind of
questioning that is happening in
aetherium in all the kind of civil and
the way we think about things is that
there's this pipeline of creating
superpowers right so software when it
reaches you as a human as an application
is a superpower that you gain and you
gain this amazing ability to communicate
or work our transact and so on and
there's a very simple pipeline of
creating these things and it starts with
ideas and a bunch of brain stuck into
each other and sending messages and
inspired by other knowledge around in
papers and some ideas are actually sound
and good and you can test them and
create proofs and so on and say hey I
think we have something that can improve
the network you take that and you write
specs of what this might actually work
like and so on you produce code all of
this is I could quite cheap you just
need people thinking in a room and
writing and then you start getting into
a bit tougher problems of deploying it
out to millions or billions of computers
and then eventually getting humans to
adopt it which i think is a huge biggest
hurdle getting humans to use a thing
there are certain great advantages that
if you nail those you can get tons of
humans using something but to fund them
we change the entire architecture of the
internet or the web the internet is
pretty good as is there's some problems
but the web mostly is what needs to be
vastly improved you need to focus in
extremely adoption and thinking very
carefully about how these applications
will work so this bad Bank has these
stages and these stages okay great these
stages the way we see it I mean this is
not at all accurate but we see it as
there's an enormous amount of research
going on in academia is lightyears ahead
in many ways and I will also classify
the blockchain development that is more
industry as this kind of research as
well as one of things that I love about
the theorem community's very focused on
new ideas and generating new things or
going back to old ideas and revisiting
them and thinking about how to make them
work these days but these filters this
go from research to developing something
that actually works to deploying into
the network and getting P humans to use
it there's this huge filters and a lot
of the times those filters are not based
on you know whether something is a good
idea or profitable but rather something
dumb happens like oh the implementation
was in C and you really needed in the
browser or this the idea was really good
but the protocol was actually broken or
something and those filters are super
problematic
that's what prevents us from taking
amazing ideas that I've been around for
decades and turning them into reality
when you look at the FS and you dig into
the ideas that make it up they've been
around for many decades many of them
right so frustrating one thing that
happened is Bitcoin show that you could
bind a protocol to a store value thing
and you could use that to fund the
development of the thing itself because
people were incentive to grow the
network and theorem took that and could
well beyond that and said hey what if we
just use this as a new funding model and
we just allocate someone to that took in
to create this new this new thing that
everyone can be a part of and this is I
think one of the most important things
happening in our community this new way
of protocols not quite self
but funding development and funding this
massive amount of innovation is a great
way to unlock innovation around the
world and we'll see I think a lot more
about this and thing first we'll talk
about this for collapse is very focused
on this kind of model and we think that
this is going to be the way that tons of
applications in terms of protocols get
built over the next few years I usually
have this slide because this is a very
very old slide fall Barron's
classification of networks this was the
guy who one of people who invented
packet switching and classified Network
networks in the centralized
decentralized and distributed
centralized networks course big problem
center point of failure decentralized
networks not quite fully derivative a
lot people disagree with this
classification by the way I'm going to
make caveat that a lot of people would
swap names and so on but I'm trying to
make a point here and that specific
neurons point is that when you look at
the decentralized network when you're
part of the network yes
not one central node controls the
network but you still have one network
that you're a part of and you get if you
get disconnected from that network you
can no longer operate and block chase do
they work that way I'm extremely
interested in pusher loop all of this
back to the original principles of the
Internet of tcp/ip into something that's
fully distributed where if you can cut
the network in half it doesn't matter
maybe loses capability to talk to
everyone else but it can still function
and blockchain is today don't work that
way in fact I'm very excited that the
etherium community is focused on this
kind of thing and does think this way as
well but most people around the world
don't think this way in fact the web
entirely is centralized so it there's so
much to the centralization but when you
really dig into how content is
represented the closet is identified by
its location which inherently
centralizes everything into that one
place and content doesn't contain is not
distributed so ipfs is entirely about
moving from the centralized model of the
web to a fully distributed one bludgeons
I think have pushed the centralization
of transactions into the decentralized
but we need to keep going and push it
all the way into the distributed slot
and I think the the ideas are already
out there people have come up with good
ways of doing a completely distributed
thing with transaction processing it
just needs to be deployed and it just
needs to we need to show that it works
and so on right now that's what's going
to prevent block chains from really
we're not necessarily replacing but
becoming the main transaction processing
system of the Internet
it's that if you're in a major city and
you lose access and connectivity to the
rest of the world you don't want to just
stop processing like that or or you
don't want to start mining on a
different chain and suddenly like you
hours or days later you join back to the
network and all of your transactions
we're now invalid right for you have to
work on rebasing them like that's not a
great failure motto and like I said I
thought a lot of people are thinking
about the problem which is great news
it's just we don't have it deployed yet
and so once we do I think these systems
will be unstoppable what I like this
totally wrecked right totally wrecked
this is pretty embarrassing so I mean
Gruen created you know this is
embarrassing we need to like fix it and
absolutely right it's socially that this
kind of failure could happen so again we
need to embed good crypto and good
distribute systems and good better
models into how we do all of this stuff
and I think I'm proud to say that if you
were using some ipfs applications in
those regions they were work just fine
because they weren't touching the NSL
and so that's cool what's happening to
the internet right now is that we're you
know if you think about packet switching
to the ARPANET to the large internet
ecosystem to than the web what's
happening is that all these applications
are being built into this this secure
cryptographic mesh or chain well you can
think of them as block chains but
there's all their kinds of hash linking
if it's not just one singular chain and
we're building them in such a way that
they can be distributed around the world
and they don't have to be communicating
to any kind of central mothership and we
are going to turn these live web
applications that today are like a
service that you use
into a tool that you download and then
you run yourself and you don't have to
worry about people maintaining a service
all the time there's major there's
there's huge problems when you just rely
on a service that other people run and
they can take that away at any moment or
your connection can be cut or their
business model might shift or whatever
and so I think these major applications
that we as humans have come to depend on
and imbue in to our own self I think
about how much you do over the web and
you rely on daily on the web these
applications need to become tools that
you have control over not services that
you rely on other people to run for you
so there's a ton of projects going on
and I'm very happy that these days like
hypothesis and etherium are which you
know two and a half years ago didn't
exist I think I'm kind of timeline right
have become some of the major projects
that are leading this charge and
thinking about the web like web 1.0
what's about linking content to each
other web 2.0 was about being dynamic
programs in loop and getting humans to
generate content and so on and it seems
that this Web thing that we're all
working on is taking locations and
organizations out of the equation
letting content link to itself letting
programs link to each other letting all
these transactions happen on their own
where everything is publicly verifiable
the incentive structures are right so
that these systems can just treat
computers as like these true commodities
that can be run anywhere and the
programs can be certifiable not rely on
specific organizations so just removing
people from loop one interesting fact
right so today and there's something we
care a lot about if you want to put some
content like some piece of data onto the
web and make it stay there like
basically pay somebody to keep it there
for you you have to be a legal entity
you have to have the ability to sign
legal documents you have to be able to
like use a credit card to sign up for a
service and pay someone like Amazon to
store your stuff for you and this is
ridiculous right like it's easy because
a lot of us have that and so like we
check those boxes all right
but think about a program being able to
like store this right this is what's
amazing about blockchain distributed
systems we are completely overturning
that and saying no no you can be a
program with a wallet and money and just
deploy it and that's it and so this is a
very different way of thinking so I'll
give a short overview of IVFs and how it
works major problems in the web huge
inefficiencies bad security model links
break censorship no offline use
definitely doesn't work on most emerging
networks and a lot of this stems from
that location addressing right so you
have domains pointing to a P addresses
and that means you have you can cut the
connection at any point I really like
this analogy it's kind of like saying
imagine that you couldn't address books
by any other way except their location
you couldn't use titles you can use
authors you can use ISBN so you had to
tell someone
oh this amazing book you have to go read
it it's in the New York Public Library
section 9 bookcase 3 top shelf first
from the left go there check it out and
think about how much could go wrong in
that equation right like you first of
all have to get on a plane and go there
which is insane you get there and maybe
the library is closed or doesn't exist
anymore or someone checked out the book
before you or someone move the book just
a few places over and now you have a
wrong book and you don't even know it's
just crazy right like and like the most
infuriating one it's like if you show up
there you find the book and you're like
oh great I have this in my backpack
awesome so this is totally wrong right
and it seems that we lost something when
we went from physical information stored
in books and paper into digital
information when we built a web we
wanted to focus on the update ability
and mutability of this this information
and so we said great just talk to that
server and figure out what it is but we
lost the ability to treat to physical
copies of information as the same thing
today to physically independent copies
of information on the web are not the
same thing and that's we need to fix
that
so hey hash links to the rescue Merkle
trees for the win you can buy names and
of course maybe not use dns use some
other naming system
that's secure and use fingerprints of
content to treat these things as the
same thing so you don't have to put
locations or identities or organizations
in the loop and so that's the core idea
YP fats that that changing this
addressing and turns out that is a huge
problem what you have to build tons of
code and chain create a new peer-to-peer
stack and it's the biggest yak shave in
the world but we are like you know two
years in no sign of stopping we're
fixing a lot of things along the way and
it's great and iBM has stands for
interplanetary file system so for three
reasons and so what is an homage to late
fighter who call the internet the
intergalactic Network so that's one
thing another thing is we think about
this thing called the interplanetary
principle that if you design the system
and you think about how it would work
both in Earth and Mars and you try to
design it to work across planets with
nice latency for humans you're going to
make something that actually works well
across earth in all its places because
to a data center being somewhere in an
emerging network it's pretty much as if
you were in Mars right when you think
about the latency is that a server deals
with so applied in to plant her
principle co2 system designs and say
would this work well in water like if
you were trying to communicate from
Earth to Mars and like that helps and
that something is about to mean it so we
are designing active as such that when
SpaceX and others get to Mars the first
pioneers that land can use the Internet
and the applications that we use here
seamlessly there locally and to
communicate with us I'm glad to say that
some like you guys would work just fine
and orbit this peer-to-peer chat app
that I'll talk about in a minute works
so that's cool so huge open-source
projects lots of people contribute in
fact many people here in the room I have
the great pleasure to work with and have
built major parts of the system and so
it's this amazing effort you guys let's
peer-to-peer chat app so I'm going to go
through like some quick use cases this
is a way of building something like
slack or IRC but completely distributed
so you don't have any central point of
failure you don't have even a blockchain
to deal with unless you want to do
things like authentication and unless
you want to do some things like know
whose human readable name is is um you
know if you want to do identity then you
have to be
with some sort of authority but you can
use orbit in a totally distributed way
and get the application loaded run and
talk to each other and not rely on
anyone else things like open Bazaar are
rebasing their architecture on top of IP
FS things like media chain a lot of
aetherium applications this is a great
synergy between our systems tons of
things use ipfs nothing's like you're
bored
there's like social networks emerging
now on block chains and ipfs things like
crypto assets and so on this is a really
cool project thanks to the Consensus
folks to do it apparently a huge mining
corporation like real mining like ground
mining is now using aetherium and ipfs
so that's awesome
straight up people use IDs to archive
data bundle in the OSS of of NASA's and
so on excuse and a bunch of systems
developer tools package managers moving
around the kind of static data and so on
I mentioned a couple of projects that
have spun out of ipfs so one of them is
lit p2p it's the collection of
peer-to-peer protocols this is similar
in that mention similar in spirit to
deaf p2p and we actually working a lot
on integrating this - this is a
frustration that we all had of like
great we want to make peer-to-peer
systems oh we will first reinvent the
entire network stack let's not do that
again let's just do it once and make a
project and that's it I think we've got
multiple mats which tries to encourage
people to build systems that can evolve
and interoperate with each other when
you make a bunch of assumptions about
what hash functions what crypto
protocols you use or what network
addresses and so on you should encode
that into the values that you pass
around because otherwise you're going to
have a really hard time trying to make
these things talk to each other so
that's one project the most interesting
one of these two theorem is IP LD which
is a this common hash chain format for
distributed data structures so when you
think about if you're em get Bitcoin
ipfs BitTorrent Plan nine they all use
half chains it was different they use
different formats but what would really
like is like some web that binds all
these distributed authenticated
the structures into one thing so you can
really have like a nice local forest and
you can like link between all these
different Merkle trees natively and like
traverse them so that's what a IPP is
about and having to say that we all.we
analysis recently and we almost have it
working people both here in the I
profess and etherium communities are
working together on this we will have
the ability to look at all of the
etherium blockchain and all the contents
or know a theorem natively in ipfs
because we can now link from my events
content to etherium and then from
etherium to Bitcoin and gate and
everything else so that's pretty cool so
so a deaf country we talked about three
things majorly so we talked about the
PPP and we worked on putting
etherium on the browser with deputy PLO
Pippi
that was an awesome demo we talked about
orbit and I'll mention it later if
there's time and well dive deep into how
you actually structure something to be
completely distributed and not rely on
any central consensus and that's the
thing we talked about was Spock one so
when it's not going I think a lot of
people here are probably wondering about
that and want to hear me talk about that
so I'll say a bit I do want to focus
attention on looking at some other
problems so I'll just kind of run
through think about file coin as Bitcoin
or aetherium meets Amazon s3 on top of
IP FS and the major problem that
PowerPoint is built to solve is let's
think about the cloud business or like a
cloud system of putting all this
infrastructure out into the network
things like computing and storage and so
on and just if you focus on storage how
could you create a free market so that
everyone who's not like you know that
top-three can actually compete and can
actually allocate resources and optimize
the storage function right so if I want
to so I want to store and serve
something on the network where should it
go
who should store it how can I make sure
that it's there over time and how can I
create the incentive structure to just
encourage tons of people around the
planet to add every single disk that's
lying there
disconnected to the network to
create something like what the Bitcoin
network has created right like this
insane hash rate increasing so a lot of
people ask like how could you ever
possibly think that I decentralized or
distributed network could ever compete
with a huge tech Titan sorry like Amazon
Google Microsoft they could never let
this implies that one could never
compete with that right but but think
about Bitcoin Bitcoin started this way
with a bunch of little spare hardware
cobbled together and now it's pretty
professional and I'm sure like the
latest pictures look way cooler it's all
over the world and the hash rate is
absolutely insane this processing power
like it's wasting more energy than small
nations it's I think somebody like
calculated that it's just using the CPUs
dedicated to this vastly exceed the CPU
capacity of like the big Titans right so
it's not a fair comparison because the
times are not trying to focus on
building as much of you as as possible
but it's still breathtaking that this is
many factor like it I think it's
potentially tens one hundreds of times
larger than what the Titans have so it
implies like you can take a distributed
network or decentralized network
encourage tons of people to add
resources to the network and make it
much larger by grave factors than the
clouds of today so it's I love seeing
this as much as I hate all this energy
going to waste and I love it today it's
about a proof of stake and like getting
rid of this insane fellow I love the
fact that powerful monetary incentives
can cause this kind of thing worldwide
so pappan it's about let's use let's
create a kind of same incentive
structure but for adding sorts the
network created cryptocurrencies that
device storage network looks pretty
simply miners add disk to the network
they exchange they sell that they
basically sell that storage to the
network I may receive a point for doing
so they can then exchange that popcorn
for Bitcoin dollars either and so on
I have many versions of these slides one
of them has ether one of them one has
other leg easy cash I think then the
third thing is like a forest users can
then buy pal coin em and spend it on the
network to store stuff and that B has
three layers so Falcon is a mind block
chain so there are miners mining this
storage and getting receiving a block
reward then there is a beta contract
layer which is where etherium and the
connection makes perfect sense which is
we need a sophisticated way to express
things like escrow and insurance and
bonding for like long-term commitments
on storage time lapse and so on like
very sophisticated ways of storing data
that major organizations would never use
a network without it like some
organizations require certain levels of
insurance or certain kinds of storage
constraints that you need contracts for
and this is where this perfect fit with
what a theorem has developed and the
last thing is the secondary market at
the top which is that once you have a
huge network storing a bunch of data you
can then sell that data very quickly
with payment channels without having to
go on chain and so you can have like
some lightning fast distribution of
content on top of on top of this so the
adapter we announced that the Falcon
watching will be virtualized in top of
the theory and what that means is there
will be about watching but it will be on
top of etherium and it will connect
directly to the etherium contracts that
are out there if your contracts will be
able to hire Falcon contracts and
there's a lot of work involved in making
network will be releasing papers later
on them like exactly detailing how but
that's the general idea
to give you a sense of the magnitude of
storage that we can someone think about
just even not that big of a network
right 10,000 nodes is not huge 100
terabytes is not out of the question
nowadays we have one to ten terabytes at
home at least in places like this
and so with that when you multiply you
get an exabyte and that's way more than
all of Netflix and Spotify combined and
it's about on the order of what Facebook
has write it like that's a relatively
small network right so what happens when
you have the insane incentive structure
of Bitcoin powering this thing like
could we get tens hundreds of exercice
someone to the network could we
encourage tons of people to just work
extremely hard on like on making more
and more and more disks to just add more
sources than network because their
blocker work will like underwrite this
whole this whole process that's what a
we're focused on
and we mentioned earlier we will be
doing a so too when we launch Falco and
release it to the to the whole network
we will be doing a five point sail to
release a lot of the coin into the hands
of other people that can actually use it
and run the network so what's next well
for us and for the system as a whole a
lot of amazing things are happening you
know you have these totally distributed
computation platforms emerging I have
some are contracts and and lots of
distribute applications and
decentralized applications changing
entirely how people think about law and
finance your branch in markets that are
about to hit that's going to be very
interesting you have free markets you
have you know social networks are
starting to get built on this stuff yes
he cash right so that I think it's going
to be probably one of the most important
developments in finance in a long time
which is what happens when you have
totally private money that people can't
look into yeah it's it's a it's going to
be a very interesting next couple of
years yeah things like Auckland and many
others that are trying to turn the cloud
into a free markets and you have this
amazing new way to fund protocol
development the reason this is important
this way of funding is important is that
when you think about protocol
development it's quite hard to capture
value from creating a protocol and feed
it back into the development itself
right so when you think about the web or
the internet think about how much value
got created by things like tcp/ip or
HTTP and think about all of that and
then say okay great like how much money
of all this value that got generated how
much of it got captured that we can feed
back into the creation of the next
generation of protocols and the only
route to do that was by creating
applications that created some sort of
value exchange captured some value and
were able to then invest in certain
areas of protocol development that
benefited those applications and not the
inherent protocols and not the inherent
ideas of the internet themselves so what
I and everyone pro claps finds extremely
attractive about this new way of funding
protocols is that we can stay as close
to the pro player as we can and create a
wait for the protocol itself to if it
fulfills its mission of creating value
then capturing de facto some amount of
that value to it reinvest it into the
development of that Network and other
networks and this is there's a lot going
on right now around this but I think
people are missing like the biggest
point here like this is a way to unlock
major innovation and speed up the entire
process I want talk about other things
here which is the amount of internet
user is actually quite small compared to
the what not quite small but not
everyone's on the internet yet right and
it's a lot of people who don't have
access to the super powers we do and the
reason this is particularly frustrating
is that the internet was brought in as
this huge equalizing force that people
would just be able to access all
information and knowledge in the planet
and have equal access basically but
that's not true and the Internet today
benefits most those people that are
closest to the backbone and those people
that have you know the newest devices
and so on and simple bad habits of
making websites big or relying too much
on locations or having a bunch of round
trips that are not painful when you're
in Silicon Valley and your ping time is
you know one millisecond are
excruciatingly addict to people in the
edges of the network and many times just
completely block them from accessing
entire systems and so great we can work
as hard as we can to drop to like
airdrop tons of what like laptops all
over the world for children but like if
they can't even access a website like
what is the point where like even if
they connect to the website it's just
insanely slow right it's it's a this
assay a why we have to go matters and
centralized but completely distributed
so the content in the applications can
get there and run there locally the
other thing here is is mobile phones
right so the majority of the planet is
using mobile phones not laptops not
desktops so for these new ways of
building applications to change the
world fully we need to make this work
with the low
resource usage restraint requirements of
mobile phones with those kinds of
networks and so on I will talk about
Siri T's here because everyone loves
consensus things like we finally like
made thing you know like the Byzantine
generals problem interesting we finally
or like you know in a mass popular way
we took it out of computer science and
said hey world like this is actually a
really cool problem and when you can
build block change you can solve it like
this other new way and it has great
properties but this there's another
branch of thinking in the distributed
systems world which is think about
building applications that are meant to
converge that over time they coalesce
updates and when you exchange
information you always arrive at the
same thing so that you don't have to
think about consensus so that you don't
have to think about forcing the entire
network to converge in one point and
then you know transact in that way
remodeling a bunch of the applications
that exist today in this domain where
you think about just computers
everywhere and like exchanging updates
is required to achieve the full
distribution of the application platform
it was required to get to deliver things
like Khan Academy to the children of the
world that needed most and it's what's
required for moving our transaction
processing systems that were turning
into boxes today into something that is
that works fully around the world a lot
of challenges here but the problems are
not impossible there are already
solutions in mind and we just have to
implement them so that's most of this
all the slides I had I'll just go back
to apparently like which one school this
one there we go most important one all
right
recording stops beside the thing I
wanted to kind of end with is some open
problems that I see in the blockchain
space and in the service systems in
general or not exactly open problems but
trying to add fanned the flames of some
efforts that I think are very important
so one of them is formal verification so
we saw over the last here what the
problems that can happen when you
program things and you don't listen
to people that audit your code or you
don't formally verify it and I think
computer science has devoted hundreds
maybe thousands of hours into producing
formal verification methods designed
precisely to stop this problem so we
need to invest deeply in that and deploy
it and it's actually quite difficult to
convince most developers around the
world to say hey trade you're like nice
dynamic languages into something that is
very strongly typed and that it's
actually quite hard to compile but if we
can figure out how to solve that part of
the pipeline then we can lift formal
verification and give it to everyone and
have contracts that we can trust fully
the other part of formal verification is
I would love to have a you know actual
implementations of a lot of these core
systems that are fully formally verified
the fact we don't have that and we just
keep changing them as is in there all
this moving targets it's kind of
terrifying right like again we saw what
happened to DNS today or like yesterday
it thankfully like a lot of systems have
been around for a long time they're
related and we think they're fine but
all the new stuff that we are making in
this room over the last year in the last
couple of years does not have that same
level of security so your guarantees so
it'd be really nice to if we can totally
verify critical components of these
systems another thing is I really like
the effort in aetherium to put the EVM
on top of well assembly I think that's
super critical because web assembly is
the VM that's getting deployed into the
entire world right like it's going into
mobile phones is going into IOT is going
into all that stuff and by the way now
that the Tesla's guys here I just talked
about formal verification on the
importance so thank you for doing the
work you're doing with follow a very
fine stuff yeah textile guy pretty cool
so the thing with well assembly is that
if we focus on that as a target and we
can build all these distribute systems
in that way and we think about the web
and executing code that you know we can
verify and check and write proofs for
and we can just move around code and
execute in various places we all
converge on those
then we can deploy much faster we all
have to change as much of the
architecture so that's a good good thing
I'll be talking about distribution full
distribution and consensus I think
another thing there is namespaces so a
lot of people right now are thinking
about how do you do
namespaces that are human readable in a
fully decentralized way or ideally in a
fully distributed way which is
inherently a whole different beast or
can you do without human readable names
right so one of the cool things about
China is they're really into QR codes
and they don't actually type write that
many names and they actually scan QR
codes and use them something that in the
u.s. were like app Cara codes what over
there is actually the main way they need
things like reach happen so on like you
can use QR codes to communicate and to
pass huge strengths and so you can use
hashes they're like you don't have to
type or write a hash one problem with
your codes is you can't really draw them
right like you imagine a few for I want
to give you an address and now I have to
like to write a hash or draw QR code but
there might be something there there
might be some other way of communicating
strings between humans in a way that's
not relying on a central authority for
allocating short strings of like human
readable characters like that's that
problem is is what caused the DNS outage
yesterday right like the fact that we
humans aren't good at memorizing long
strings of characters cause the major
loss of value yesterday and causes all
sorts of pain for developers and
engineers everywhere it's kind of crazy
like if we had involved if a lot ever
reason humans had evolved with a need to
memorize long strings where we get very
different well I'm hoping that within
100 or 200 we will figure out how to
interface with computers very directly
or other things will happen so yeah I
think those are things that people in
this room are struggling with and
finding solutions for and will hear
about later today a bunch of solutions
around some of these things will will
talk about proof stake will talk about
consensus in a way that doesn't create
this huge wastage of electricity
we'll talk about hopefully we'll get
into scalability and
moving the transaction limits into
something where we can get achieve
millions of transactions per second
or billions of transactions per second
because that's actually what's required
for dealing with most of the
transactions that happen on the internet
most of the transactions the internet
are not financial money moving they're
actually somebody sending a message to
somebody else on a social network or
things like that things of that ilk and
so that's actually a transaction is so
it's some actor causing some state
change to some other actor somewhere and
for these systems to replace the way we
architect all these systems we need to
reach that level of scalability it's
exciting to see also like the lightning
guys here in the room I think it's a
great collection so very excited for the
rest of today I think I'm just about on
time I want to thank all of you for
being here it's great to see you and
it's great that certain Valley is famous
for attention to etherium this year than
the year before and the one before that
there was a huge barrier I think between
everyone really focused on Bitcoin and
not really listening and now there's a
lot more listening and realizing that
whoa like this amazing new platform
emerged and how is questioning a bunch
of assumptions so that's very cool I
think
so it's always nice to have a question
or to check out a couple questions of
course hi my name is Greg um
so III think that terminology is a
really important thing so sometimes when
I hear you say things like not to
centralized but distributed I kind of
cringe inside because the paper that
that image comes from it was from a guy
who was writing for a company I think it
was like might have been AT&T or Bell
Labs or something like that and that
network that he called a fully
distributed or what you call fully
distributed was in the way that we use
the term decentralized today was a
centralized network because there was
one company that controlled that entire
network so is do you see a way for the
the people who are sort of you know
advocating decentralized networks and
the people who are advocating
distributed networks to be able to stop
fighting with each other and come to a
shared terminology that both sides can
agree on so my take on this is actually
that decentralized and distributed or
exactly synonyms and I use the three
words number one politically
decentralized which means there's not
one group that controls it number two
your kits actually this decentralized
which means there's not one computer say
and if one computer goes down things
still works and number three of logic
weighted is decentralized so something
that's logically centralized for example
would be a Merkle tree because even if
there's thousands of notes notes storing
it there's still one root whereas other
structures or might be logically
decentralized so there you go what so
the nd that yeah I'll just say one more
thing um yeah and that's kind of way I
introduced a caveat of saying this is my
terminology other people disagree with
it and that's fine I think people are
fighting I'm really pushing forward for
decentralized networks what I do want to
draw it draw attention to is that
everyone even in this room is saying
great let's do centralized competition
in centralized
web and we're building block chains
which of course are decentralize
indigent releasing power but our
centralizing this very other different
problem which is you don't have this
very nice fabric that you can cut and
I'm directly making an appeal to the old
definition of distributed to the one
that Papa ran used to the one that vint
cerf used to think about something that
you can really cut in half or in small
pieces and still work and yeah we can
maybe find a better work for that there
so far there isn't a very nice word that
captures that other than distributed
that's my take on it we can disagree on
terminology okay we're just going to get
one more question here hi I'm name's
Sonia quick question on file coin I was
wondering if there are or what your
thoughts are in terms of either
collaborating or merging parts of file
coin slash ipfs with swarm at least use
maybe the incentivization that's once
working on with the storage or the
continent disability that you guys have
in general is there how are you thinking
about either bringing the two together
yeah I think there's a lot of
interesting collaborating in fact our
Def Con we spent a bunch of hours
sitting together and talking about ways
of bridging things I think one big one
thing I love about the swarm work is a
very strong focus on generating these
kinds of contracts that have collateral
and have insurance and so on I think
there's a lot of possibilities for more
collaboration and we'll we'll get into
those in the future I think ultimately
what we need is much more direct working
together I think part of the part of
like the siloing of development that
we're seeing in some some networks is
just due to the fact that developers and
humans can only interact with so many
people in a day and can only interact
with so many code bases in a day and I
think just spending more time together
physically like centralizing all of us
we're a bit and working together and
solving very accurate concrete problems
and deeper ways of integrating will help
so that's one of the one of the cool
things about putting popcorn on a
theorem it's actually a much more
tighter integration with those kinds of
contracts and those kinds of and that
development energy okay
let's thank one thank you